supercross live on supercross online com
Kevin Barnett and Jim Holly here 3rd
annual monster energy cup gym and it
just seems like this events growing each
year can you believe it three years
another million dollars on the line i'm
so stoked to the event the first year
when Villopoto was here and he picked up
that million dollars the atmosphere in
just the fans you know knowing that hey
man one of these guys walked away with a
million dollars last year great racing I
mean a lot of guys stepped up barson
ends up winning it he doesn't win the
million but he wins 100,000 and it was a
grid preview into the Supercross season
4 2013 well here it is 2013 October
we're here at Sam Boyd Stadium next year
Anaheim 2014 right around the corner
it's going to be good but there's a
rookie here making his debut and that's
James Stewart first year James Stewart's
riding the mantra in each cup I'm happy
to see James here it's good that he's
finally healthy and we'll see what he
can do a lot of storylines including
James Stewart I remember back to last
year Ryan Villopoto had actually won
four straight main events because he won
the 32 first year he won the first one
here last year was leading and crashed
out wasn't 100% this year he's a hundred
percent is he the odds-on favorite well
I got to go back to 2011 he won the
Supercross Championship he won the
Outdoor Championship he comes here he
picks up a million dollars he's in line
to do it again i mean if if things are
going to align I mean he's on fire he's
the guy to beat here but you know like
he said he beat himself last year he was
leading that second main event he falls
down and the key Kevin is you got to win
that first heat race I'm not a trace
first main event you win the first man
you're the only guy in line for a
million now you got everybody else
shooting for a hey man if he if I'm not
going to get the million he's not going
to get the million so that's what makes
the racing so good in the second and
third main events we get so used to
saying he traces in fact just three main
events that it's a strange format but
it's an exciting formatting remember
there are a lot of different changes
here at Monster jack up a lot of stuff
and try it out we had the Joker Lane
back again the split start is back again
Joe girliness time is red well I think
that I think the reason why they did
that Kevin is because of the fact that
last year it kind of blended in with the
track and you got to go there every
rider and each main event has to go
through their one lap so when you come
out of monster alley you look down you
can kind of see it off the side and you
got to go through it so and it's gnarly
it looks to me like it's the red
baseball clay they put in the infielder
with something else I like is the amsoil
arch up there I mean that's a sweeping
right-hand corner coming out of this
long sand whoop section here it's a
tough course here a hundred foot triple
I mean you know Supercross you got 265
70 they stretched it out over the last
couple years at 80 now it's a hundred
you know I've talked to you before like
man I'd like to go around the track I
don't want to go around this track this
track is gnarly there are some huge
portions as we're standing on one big
part of it right now in the center of
the track and this is gonna be
interesting challenge to for the younger
guys amateur allosaurus back in and KJ
SC the KTM juniors program yeah that's
pretty cool i mean they they're taking
the top two they only did five super
crosses last year and to arena crosses
so the top two from those seven events
we got 14 guys here in the winner gets
to keep his motorcycle I thought that
was pretty cool yeah that's an awesome
touch for those young riders you know
those motorcycles were so coveted
throughout the Supercross season when
everything would get a chance to write
them they would want to keep them well
we have a lot of other good riders here
we have Eli Tomac back off of this
nation's and actually last winner of a
main event here and in this event I
wonder if he isn't the guy that's
climbing on the 450 now full-time not
just moonlighting on it perhaps he's the
guy who's going to step up well it's
interesting you say that because during
our show today Supercross live Dave
Arnold actually was team manager for
honda Geico hired him he's retired he's
been with Honda for 40 years he's coming
on our show tonight we're going to ask
him because they brought him on because
they want to win races next year with
Eli Tomac and what a great way to start
here in October leading into this gym I
asked one of the riders this is this the
end of 2013 or the beginning of 2014
what's your view beginning of 2014 I
mean you know 2013 is over and let's
face it I mean this is a one-off race
it's a unique race you got a chance to
win a million dollars but not only most
importantly you get
answer try some new things before that
and that's why they you know they come
here not not for the million dollars I
mean of course they're here for the
million dollars but I mean in the back
of their mind they're getting ready and
they're getting set for Anaheim come
2014 remember the format of this if one
rider is able to take the three main
events you will take home a million
dollars just the winner of this event
will take on $100,000 no matter how many
means he wins and if you do whole shot
all three main events you take anything
new Toyota truck that's going to be good
at Toyota whole show yeah that's that's
hard because like you said you got the
split start you know normally there's a
bunch of guys coming down you only got
to deal with nine other guys on the left
and nine other guys on the right when
they come down and they meet something
else I like they put they put that wall
there so last year when they came down
and they met there was no wall there and
a couple guys kind of tangled a little
bit so that's pretty good that the dirt
works guys Infeld you know they're
always looking at you know making the
track safer for the riders definitely
going to be an exciting night here in
San boise remember we will have live
streaming of qualifying practice that
will happen from one until four-thirty
and the race tonight live on Fox Sports
2 it will re-air on the new FS one
that's Fox Sports 1 tomorrow morning's
can be a 10 a.m. pacific one eastern
time so tune in check it out Supercross
Lites Supercross online com Kevin and
gym all day